From Steven.Kauffmann at fmtc.be  Fri Nov 14 09:03:11 2008
From: Steven.Kauffmann at fmtc.be (Steven Kauffmann)
Date: Fri, 14 Nov 2008 09:03:11 +0100
Subject: [Ethercatmaster-devel] EML license update
Message-ID: <20081114080314.60AF748EE10@server04.site04.wtcm.be>

In 2006, The Flanders' Mechatronics Technology Centre (FMTC) made an 
implementation of the EtherCAT master protocol (further on this 
implementation is reffered to as EML). FMTC, copyright holder of EML, 
intended to release this software as open source software under the 
GPL or LGPL license. Since the EtherCAT technology is protected by 
patents, FMTC contacted Beckhoff Automation before releasing the 
source code as open source software.

Beckhoff was willing to license the EtherCAT technology and trade 
name free of charge to FMTC, however they were also concerned to keep 
the "EtherCAT Masters" in the market not being fully compatible any 
longer with the latest version of EtherCAT specification and 
technology down to a minimum number. The EtherCAT Master License 
Agreement is a peer-to-peer license between the user of EML 
(Licensee) and Beckhoff and assures that the right to use EtherCAT 
Technology is granted and comes free of charge under condition of 
compatibility of product made by Licensee.

Recently, FMTC has been informed by Beckhoff that the (L)GPL license 
may not allow the addition of an extra license such as the EtherCAT 
Master License Agreement. When informed, FMTC immediately removed the 
EML sources from the public server at 
http://ethercatmaster.berlios.de and advised current users to verify 
the situation with Beckhoff before continuing any development based on EML.

Last week Beckhoff and FMTC reached an agreement that allows FMTC to 
distribute the EML code under any license that is compatible with the 
EtherCAT Master License Agreement. This makes it possible for FMTC to 
offer current users of the EML code a new peer-to-peer license that 
resolves the ambiguity.

Therefore we urge all current users of the EML code that wish such a 
new license to contact FMTC (info at fmtc dot be) as soon as possible.



